William King Richardson Room, W.K.
Richardson Room, which has the desk and the panel and the portrait and the books and the manuscript.
A dedicated Harvard collector, a famous Boston lawyer, patent attorney.
That's right.
A student at Balliol, Oxford, before he settled down to his work in Austin.
And a collector specialized in binding and really fine binding, early printing.
Are bindings important to rare book collections?
Yeah, this is wonderful.
And there's these bindings.
You see, there's a powdered gold binding, that green one in the middle.
Madame de Pompadour on the left of it.
And a coal bigger with a serpent.
And there's a grolier on the upper left there.
You see the narrow one.
findings of the sort that an institutional library would not purchase, you know.
So this collection gives us the advantage of being able to exhibit and demonstrate to students books like that that we never could show otherwise.
Would you buy it?
You could never justify buying them, right?
These are very great manuscripts.
These are cases that now are
protect the manuscripts in that particular case.
Time and time again, Richardson manuscripts and Richardson books figure in our exhibitions as they're the best of type.
So it's a great collection, and one which is also very useful in teaching.
Down in this corner, there are a lot of incandibles, and they're very useful to me, and the seminar was right around the corner.
Sometime at the last minute, when I need some examples of things, I can come in here.
A-L-D-I-N-E.
This place is wonderful.
And of course, this is Amy Lowell's room.
She was a great collector.
She wrote a very press biography of Keats.
A lot of association copies of books inscribed to her by her contemporaries.
And she was very helpful to her contemporary office.
And then she collected classic English fiction from Anthony Burney.
This is the ring with electrostechnics.
Roger, did you know anything about the media comments?
No, nothing.
But she goes up to Harding or Harding.
It's even framed up to quite modern times.
This doesn't happen often.
A collector gets a room at Harvard.
Chancellor says you might see it in Texas.
This is the great room.
And this is, of course, Arthur Hoden's very love.
He loved Keats rather than any other English author.
And this room was part of the original plan for the Hoden Library.
The Richardson Room came in 1949 or 50, something like that, almost 10 years after the library had been built.
And that is a life mask of Keats as opposed to a death mask.
There is no death mask in the collection.
Emily Dickinson is in here, I believe.
Yes, Emily Dickinson, the Emily Dickinson manuscripts and books from the Dickinson house are in that room.
But we can't say that she's a Harvard collector, but we can say that Arthur Harvard and William King Richard Smith... You don't have all the faxicles, do you?
Or do you?
The Dickinson?
No, no, no.
That's been a matter of some...
contention, I guess, which I know about.
We don't have to ask you about.
It would be part of an exhibit, as you mentioned, of collections, contributions.
We're still thinking about this, but we'll probably make an exhibition of books and manuscripts that are important in their own right, and that
It really fits in with what I'm writing about.
Would you like to read some of my copy, by the way, when I have some?
Well, I'll be happy to read some a little bit.
The historical stuff, if you'd like.
I know you're a busy man.
We are nowhere.
There are two levels of bookstacks like this.
What you're looking at is the beginning of American books.
You can tell that.
Indian Bibles.
Is that a cotton movie?
That's Elliot's Indian Bible.
These are all tract volumes or sermons from the Mather Library, owned by some of these.
To be fair, they have the Mather Library, and we have a few books, a couple of shelves from the Mather Library.
What's good is that they're all close.
I mean, that the scholar doesn't have to go far.
Here's the account of the fire that wiped out the Harvard Library in 1764.
And there was immediately a great international effort to repair the damage of that fire to both the scientific instruments, which are the apparatus, and the library.
And that's how Thomas Hollis becomes so important to Harvard for the many cases of books that
came from him and John Barnard.
Thomas Hollis.
Hollis, H-O-L-L-I-S.
Now that's Barn's project.
W.H.
Barn, a Norris librarian, is publishing at Cambridge Press, his lecture series on Hollis.
He'll be coming out in January, probably.
probably be available to you called bond where's where's bond from uh he's from the library okay he's around here then i can talk to him yes you can he lives in concord and he comes into the library um fairly regularly
You'll find him in the phone book, credit and copy.
And you might well find that he would make a date of use on Thursday.
It might be interesting to chat.
What kind of... Is this the halon stuff?
Do you have that here?
No, that's a detector system.
Oh, that's a detector.
What do you use for that?
That's a detector system.
I suppose the things I...
I am reluctant to talk about are security systems and fire systems in libraries.
And if you could bring yourself to leave them out of your book, you would do us all a favor.
Okay.
Instead of saying, whereas Yale and Folger have this system, Harvard... No, no, I wouldn't do that.
You know why I wouldn't do it?
You know what I mean.
Yeah, well, it's boring, too.
I don't wish to write a boring book, either.
And it's easier, alas, to obtain information about that than it could be.
It's just awful.
When you get to someone like Melville, and here's the end of Melville, you wind up with books from his library, as you do with Henry James, that I was just talking about.
Here's the leer that he read just before revising Moby Dick.
That's in his hands.
Ego non baptizo te in nomine.
Patris at filii et spiritus sancti, said in nomine Diaboli.
Remember that verse on the... The Dramatic Works of Shakespeare, item 7, 1837.
That's Melville's copy, annotated in his hand.
In a Boston edition of the Works of Shakespeare.
I have this set in my collection.
It's a nice one.
Yeah.
It has the...
It has Billy Budd in the poems, and the poems are first.
I dare say my set is in nicer shape.
Well, that one's been used.
Now, remember that the manuscript of Billy Budd, the manuscript goes like poems here in this library, even portrait that you've seen.
Those manuscripts can well be the reason that Melville was rediscovered.
So it is said... Well, it certainly helped.
It certainly did Billy Budd.
Billy Budd.
Well, this goes on.
We've passed volumes from E. E. Cummings's library.
And that's something special in this library, that we have so many books from the libraries of interesting people.
some of whom are authors, and some of whom have their papers here, and some Cummings.
Cummings' papers, his manuscripts and correspondence are here, and a lot of the books inscribed to him by contemporaries are annotated by him.
Bronson Alcott's papers are here, and so are the books from his library.
The books from Lowell's library, Henry James's, William James's, Melville's, even Carlisle.
The library that Carlisle formed to work with, kind of study of Frederick the Great, was brought to Harvard, thanks to the efforts of Charles Allen, Northern, and L. East.
These look like manuscript drawings or whatever.
We've got a new phone system.
Uh-huh.
And we're working on the air handler.
And you'll find us closed just before school in order to come up to work into... One of these giant... Well, this is just a section devoted to folios.
Uh-huh.
And you'll find here the double elephant folios all gone.
May I just feel it?
May I?
Yes, you can feel it.
It's like that.
Why don't you take it?
Would you mind taking it?
I would just like to open and look at one of these.
Okay.
Why don't you take that whole end.
Wow.
Put it down.
This is a moment for me to save this.
I've handled Bill Scheide's Gutenberg and the Tamerlane at... No.
Why don't we?
Why don't we just grab this brush?
Okay.
And we open to some... No, we're not.
This is quite an exquisite copy, isn't it?
This didn't fox at all.
I mean, not this particular copy, but Audubon in general didn't fox.
He must have used very, very fine paper.
I have not seen many.
I remember the coffee in the Beinecke.
They have that special case that you show there, Audubon.
That's a clean coffee like this.
You can put this over here.
Let's just grab this.
I'm quite thrilled.
The same clunk of leaves.
Can you grab the whole?
Yeah.
You made my dick.
Now, if you can take the
That's volume one.
Only at this point will I take out my pen and write in my notebook.
Volume one, Audubon.
Open to the song, Sparrow.
Part of this quest has been a very tactile experience, too, you know?
That's great.
That's what books are supposed to be for collectors and spars and librarians.
You lock them, you pick them up, you open them up.
And if you're all too aware of the distinction between a little elephant folio, a book that comes in that format, and a little miniature book.
And it's part of the significance of books, of their shape and size and weight.
and we're easy to manipulate and work and use, we're difficult.
And then, of course, it's part of our custodianship that we do careful of books so that we pass the mind to others in a great condition and that we don't use books up.
That's our ethic in real books of guardianship.
The ethic is, state it once again, that we don't use books up.
And on the other side of it,
and we're inundating our students with books, trying to get them to read and study, we're doing that with books that we do use up.
You know, we're replacing them.
We have a Riverside Shakespeare.
Well, that's not there to preserve.
That's there to be used until it can't be repaired any longer, and then it's replaced with another one.
That's another side of books.
It's not our side.
If Riverside Shakespeare comes here, it is a record copy.
It is the first printing of
an important new set of notes, or it is a copy that belonged to someone and got annotated, and for one reason or another, must be preserved to the extent that they were able to preserve it.
Okay?
Yes, sir.